# FYP
Final Year Project - "Developing Healthy Habits to Improve Wellbeing using Machine Learning"

## Abstract
Incorporating healthy habits into a person’s lifestyle can be an incredibly difficult task. Behavioural research has identified the ‘habit loop’ as a core element of habit formation. and serves as the theoretical foundation of this project. Recommendation systems have been deployed successfully in many domains such as e-commerce and education creating a more tailored and enjoyable experience for the user. Applying the habit loop concept, this project aims to help the development of healthy habits by identifying personalised healthy routines through a machine learning-based recommendation system. To meet this aim, a machine learning system is developed to provide personalised activity recommendations via the consideration of users’ activity interests, activities viewed/completed and personal user data. This system also incorporates elements of the habit loop to encourage healthy habit formation. While many recommendation algorithms exist, their challenges and characteristics, along with the properties of the software system in its context of use is considered, when making design and implementation choices. This project explores recommendation algorithms that are relevant to the proposed software system solution and its implementation. In addition, academic literature in the formation of habits is used to guide the development of the system. A good degree of focus is placed on the software design and development techniques utilised in the construction of the project software system in order to provide an adequate level of software quality, particularly maintainability for future work. Performance of this algorithm is measured using suitable evaluation metrics. A user evaluation of the software system is also conducted, where a small focus group is introduced to the software system and surveyed to provide feedback on its effectiveness to contribute to establishing healthy habits. Based on the testing and evaluation, conclusions are drawn in relation to whether the aim of the project was fulfilled, along with limitations and areas of future work are identified.

## Version History
- 0.1
    - Initial Release
